# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?
In initialize method in Property calss calling it in console.db file using Property.new. Also in Property.all class method using again Property.new where we create objects from all the records from the database.

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?
In "save" method. We assign it in sql variable replacing values during execution of prepared SQL statement.

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?
Property.delete_all()
property1.save()
property2.save()
property3.save()
property1.delete()

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?
We don't do it because we want to keep id unique and it would be impractical to check which id is "free". We also want to protect id from being changed and give only "reader" access to it.

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?
We do it in "save" method of Property class. When we execute prepared SQL statement we ask to return id which we assign to variable @id which has assigned id of the 'Property' object.
@id = db.exec_prepared("save", values)[0]["id"].to_i

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?
To avoid forcing assigning value to variable @id when there isn't one given.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?
It is because some of the actions need to be performed on all the instances and some on a single instance of the objects i.e. we search through all the objects but we also modify only a single SQL record (by modifying the related object first).

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?
It is an array of one hash and we are accessing it by choosing first element [0] and then getting id from it by ["id"] key

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?
To prevent SQL inject attack and protect database.

## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?
id variable Integer and address variable which is String

Q11. What are their return values?
They create a new instance of property class created from data of found property and return it.
